feat: add files for the paperbench article (#31)
lamalab-org/toolminutes: papers/paper_bench_2025.md

Reviewer: tomorrow, you perhaps need to also spend some time giving people a rough idea about what an agent is

---
author: Martiño Ríos García
date: 2025-04-16
title-block-banner: paper_bench_images/judges.png
bibliography: ../references.bib
---

# PaperBench: Evaluating AI’s Ability to Replicate AI Research

## Why discussing this paper?

I chose PaperBench from OpenAI [@starace2025paperbench0] because:

> - It is a recent paper that proposes a new benchmark for evaluating LLM-powered agents that work in developing AI research.
> - Specifically, the task of reproducing existing work should be the first milestone in the development of LLM-powered agents that can autonomously conduct research.  - They use LLM-as-Judge for evaluating some of the tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is a recent paper that proposes a new benchmark for evaluating LLM-powered agents that work in developing AI research.
- Specifically, the task of reproducing existing work should be the first milestone in the development of LLM-powered agents that can autonomously conduct research.  
- They use LLM-as-Judge for evaluating some of the tasks.
```

## Context

Agents are becoming increasingly capable of performing complex tasks, including some sparks of autonomous independent research [@lu2024ai]. However, perhaps one of the first steps in AI and coding research is the ability to reproduce existing work. This is a crucial step in validating and building upon previous research findings. While there are many benchmarks for evaluating LLMs in various domains, there are few that focus specifically on the task of reproducing AI research, and more specifically, only having access to the paper.

## Prior Work

### SciCode: A Research Coding Benchmark Curated by Scientists

SciCode [@tian2024scicode0] is a benchmark designed to evaluate the ability of LLMs to reproduce scientific code. It consists on a set of tasks based on reproducing AI scientific scripts. Interestingly, the scripts are not synthetic, but rather real-world scripts that have been used in actual research papers. The benchmark is curated by scientists and includes a diverse set of tasks from various domains, including biology, chemistry, and physics.

> The benchmark is very well designed since each of the scripts is divided in subtasks that allows for a more detailed evaluation of the agents. The agents are provided only with the task and the different docstrings explaining the subtasks. The benchmark is designed to be challenging, with a focus on evaluating the ability of LLMs to understand and reproduce complex scientific code. The authors also introduce a novel evaluation framework that uses LLMs as judges to assess the quality of the agent's output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The benchmark is very well designed since each of the scripts is divided into subtasks, which allows for a more detailed evaluation of the agents. The agents are provided only with the task and the different docstrings explaining the subtasks. The benchmark is designed to be challenging, with a focus on evaluating the ability of LLMs to understand and reproduce complex scientific code. The authors also introduce a novel evaluation framework that uses LLMs-as-Judge to assess the quality of the agent's output.
```

date: 2025-04-16
title-block-banner: paper_bench_images/judges.png
bibliography: ../references.bib
---

# PaperBench: Evaluating AI’s Ability to Replicate AI Research

## Why discussing this paper?

I chose PaperBench from OpenAI [@starace2025paperbench0] because:

- It is a recent paper that proposes a new benchmark for evaluating LLM-powered agents that work in developing AI research.
- Specifically, the task of reproducing existing work should be the first milestone in the development of LLM-powered agents that can autonomously conduct research.  
- They use LLM-as-Judge for evaluating some of the tasks.

## Context

Agents are becoming increasingly capable of performing complex tasks, including some sparks of autonomous independent research [@lu2024ai]. However, perhaps one of the first steps in AI and coding research is the ability to reproduce existing work. This is a crucial step in validating and building upon previous research findings. While there are many benchmarks for evaluating LLMs in various domains, there are few that focus specifically on the task of reproducing AI research, and more specifically, only having access to the paper.

## Prior Work

> ### SciCode: A Research Coding Benchmark Curated by Scientists

Reviewer: perhaps you could almost move some of those notes to the Chemical Reviews ... I feel your review here is more elaborate than what we have right now on agent (evals)

> SciCode [@tian2024scicode0] is a benchmark designed to evaluate the ability of LLMs to reproduce scientific code. It consists on a set of tasks based on reproducing AI scientific scripts. Interestingly, the scripts are not synthetic, but rather real-world scripts that have been used in actual research papers. The benchmark is curated by scientists and includes a diverse set of tasks from various domains, including biology, chemistry, and physics.

Reviewer: "consists of"

|**AIDE**                    |                         |                        |                   |                    |
| o1-preview                 | **98.4 ± 0.4**          | **82.8 ± 1.1**         | **9.4 ± 0.8**     | **16.9 ± 1.1**     |
| gpt-4o-2024-08-06          | 70.7 ± 0.9              | 54.9 ± 1.0             | 5.0 ± 0.4         | 8.7 ± 0.5          |
| llama-3.1-405b-instruct    | 46.3 ± 2.9              | 27.3 ± 2.6             | 1.7 ± 0.7         | 3.0 ± 1.0          |
| claude-3.5-sonnet-20240620 | 68.9 ± 3.1              | 51.1 ± 3.3             | 4.4 ± 1.4         | 7.6 ± 1.8          |
|**MLAB**                    |                         |                        |                   |                    |
| gpt-4o-2024-08-06          | 65.6 ± 2.5              | 44.3 ± 2.6             | 0.8 ± 0.5         | 0.8 ± 0.5          |
| **OpenHands**              |                         |                        |                   |                    |
| gpt-4o-2024-08-06          | 59.1 ± 3.3              | 52.0 ± 3.3             | 2.7 ± 1.1         | 4.4 ± 1.4          |

: Accuracy in submitting and winning a medal (top submission) {#tbl-id:paperbench_table_1}

> The results show that the models can prepare a correct submission in a good amount fo times. However, of all of these times, only a small fraction---around 15% for the best agent---win a medal in the competition. While this results show promising results, still they struggle to produce high-quality submissions.

Reviewer: fo times -> of time

Refer to @siegel2024corebenchfosteringcredibilitypublished for further discussion on Core Bench.

## PaperBench problem setting

- Reproducing existing work can be a challenging and interesting task for LLM-based agents.
- Grading the replication attemps can be really time-consuming.
- At the same time, if you use an LLM to grade, how do you evaluate the LLM?

## Approach

The authors compile a dataset of 20 articles published as Spotlight and Oral papers from ICML 2024. For each of the papers they compile a set of rubrics that are used to evaluate the replication attempts. Each of the rubrics is structured as a hierarchical tree, with the top-level nodes representing the main categories of evaluation and the lower-level or leaf-nodes nodes representing the specific criteria within each category. This decomposition allows to do a very robust scoring which allows a more insightful evaluation of the agents.
![Figure taken from PaperBench [@starace2025paperbench0] summarizing all tasks original article, topic and the number of nodes in their evaluation rubric.](paper_bench_images/figure_5.png){#fig-id:paperbench_figure_5}

### Overall workflow

> For each of the tasks, the agents are given with the original paper to replicate and some clarifications compiled by the authors of the paper to better understand what was done in the paper. To avoid reward hacking, the agents are not allowed to see the rubric used to evaluate the replication attempts. The agents are asked to produce a *reproduce.sh* script that when run reproduces the results of the paper. To check if the results are correctly reproduced, the produced script is run in a fresh environment in a virtual machine with access to one GPU. The agent is not constrain by the time and it has $1000 of OpenAI credits and a HuggingFace API key.

Reviewer: constrain by the time  -> constrained in time
